Regulations
of Tourist
Accommodation Facility
This translation is provided
for guidance. The governing
text is the Arabic text.
     Contents
    Description                            Page No.

    Chapter One: Introductory Provisions      3

    Chapter Two: License                      6

    Chapter Three: Classification            10

    Chapter Four: Exemptions                 14

    Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations         16

    Chapter Six: General Provisions           25

    Fees Schedule                             28




2
Chapter One
Introductory Provisions
                                             Chapter One: Introductory Provisions




    Article 1   In these Regulations, the following terms and phrases shall have the
                meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:

                Law: Tourism Law
                Regulations: Regulationsof Tourist Accommodation Facility.
                Ministry: Ministry of Tourism.
                Minister: Minister of Tourism.
                Tourist Accommodation Facility: Any place that provides daily
                accommodation for tourists in return for a fee, and is operating
                either on a permanent or temporary basis.
                License: A document issued by the Ministry allowing its holder to
                practice the activity of operating a tourist accommodation facility.
                Licensee: Any person with a legal capacity who has obtained a
                license from the Ministry in accordance with the Law and its
                Regulations.
                Classification: A mechanism for evaluating the tourist
                accommodation facility and the level of service provided therein
                as per specified types, categories or classes.
                Classification Criteria: Conditions to be satisfied in any tourist
                accommodation facility to determine its type, category or class.
                Classification Certificate: A fixed-term document issued by the
                Ministry in the name of the tourist accommodation facility based
                on the classification criteria.
                Tourist: Any person with a natural capacity who, for the purpose
                of tourism, lawfully stays for a period of no less than one night
                outside his regular place of residence, or makes use of one or more
                tourist, complementary, and specialized services.
                Reservation Voucher: A contract concluded by the licensee with
                the service applicant to provide one or more of the licensed services.
                Procedural Guides: A document that includes instructions,
                guidelines, criteria, or others to specify the detailed procedures
                complementary to these Regulations, in accordance with the
                provisions of the Law and its Regulations.




4
                                             Chapter One: Introductory Provisions




                National Tourism Monitoring Platform: An electronic platform
                to monitor the performance of the tourist accommodation facility
                and the tourist movement in the Kingdom, and to collect the
                relevant statistics and data.
                Official Address: The address registered in the license, the national
                address, or the contact information of the activity practitioner,
                whatever their types, as obtained by the Ministry.




                These Regulations set rules for regulating the activity of operating
    Article 2   tourist accommodation facilities, define the procedures, controls,
                and requirements for obtaining the license necessary for practicing
                such activity, and specify the licensee’s ongoing obligations, and
                general provisions.




5
Chapter Two
License
                                                                Chapter Two: License




    Article 3   The activity of operating a tourist accommodation facility may
                not be practiced without obtaining a license, or after the expiry or
                cancellation of the license, or during its suspension period.




    Article 4   The following requirements shall be satisfied when applying to
                obtain a license from the Ministry:
                1. A valid commercial register providing for the activity of
                    operating a tourist accommodation facility;
                2. A valid license from the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
                    and Housing or the competent authority, as the case may be;
                3. A valid permit, or the like, from the General Directorate of Civil
                    Defense;
                4. Official data of the applicant and his representative in dealing
                    with the Ministry in relation to the activity, if any, and the
                    facility data; and
                5. Proof of linking to Shomoos system; and
                6. Proof of the right to use the trademark, if any.
                The applicant shall fill out the license application form prepared by
                the Ministry.


    Article 5   If the license applicant fails to satisfy any of the requirements
                specified in Article 4 of these Regulations, the Ministry may
                coordinate with the competent authorities to meet such
                requirements, and shall notify the applicant of same.




7
                                                                  Chapter Two: License




    Article 6   After fulfilling the requirements specified in Article 4 of these
                Regulations, the license applicant shall carry out the following:
                1. Create a direct link with the National Tourism Monitoring
                    Platform;
                2. Satisfy the classification criteria for the least category in the
                    star-rated tourist accommodation facility of all types;
                3. Satisfy the classification criteria for the least class in the class-
                    rated tourist accommodation facility of all types;
                4. Satisfy the classification criteria for the other unclassified types.



    Article 7   After the license applicant satisfies the requirements set forth in
                Articles 4 and 6 of these Regulations and pays the license fees in
                accordance with the Fees Schedule attached to these Regulations,
                the Ministry shall inspect the tourist accommodation facility to
                ensure that the requirements are fulfilled and the correctness of
                the information and documents submitted by the license applicant,
                and shall accordingly prepare the visit report.


    Article 8   The Ministry shall issue the license upon its approval of the visit
                report that is prepared in accordance with Article 7 of these
                Regulations, and which includes no observations on the tourist
                accommodation facility, and upon payment of the license fees in
                accordance with the Fees Schedule attached to these Regulations.



    Article 9   1.   The license shall contain the licensee’s data, the type of the
                     tourist accommodation facility, the license issuing and expiry
                     dates, and any other information specified by the Ministry.
                2.   The license term may not exceed three years, and shall be
                     renewable.




8
                                                                    Chapter Two: License




    Article 10 1.      The licensee shall, in the event of intending to renew the license,
                       apply to the Ministry within 60 days prior to its expiration, and
                       shall satisfy the conditions required for renewal as follows:
                        a. Meet the requirements set forth in Articles 4 and 6 of these
                        Regulations;
                        b. Pay the required fees in accordance with the Fees Schedule
                        attached to these Regulations.
                  2.   Upon fulfillment of the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Article,
                       the Ministry shall issue the renewed license, which shall take
                       effect as of the date of expiry of the previous license for a
                       period not exceeding three years.
                  3.   The Ministry may examine the availability of the specific
                       requirements for renewal through subsequent inspections.
                  4.   The Ministry may – in the event that the licensee applies for
                       license renewal within the period stipulated in Paragraph (1) of
                       this Article – grant the licensee a grace period, when required,
                       not exceeding 60 days from the date of expiry of the license, in
                       order to complete the renewal procedures; said period shall be
                       counted from the term of the renewed license.


    Article 11 The licensee shall obtain the Ministry’s approval and pay the fees in
               accordance with the Fees Schedule attached to these Regulations
                  prior to carrying out any of the following:
                  1. Temporary closure of the tourist accommodation facility or
                       any part thereof, provided that the facility notifies all persons
                       affected by such closure, and terminates all existing obligations
                       during the closure period;
                  2. Permanent closure of any part of the tourist accommodation
                       facility, provided that the facility notifies all persons affected
                       by such closure, and terminates all existing obligations during
                       the closure period;
                  3. Permanent closure of the entire tourist accommodation facility
                       and request for license cancellation, provided that the facility
                       notifies all persons affected by such closure, and terminates all
                       existing obligations during the closure period;
                  4. Cancellation or amendment of the commercial register, trade
                       name, or trademark, including changing same on the external
                       sign of the tourist accommodation facility;
                  5. Making any structural modifications or renovations to the
                       tourist accommodation facility;
                  6. Allowing others to use the license, provided that the person
                       to whom the license is transferred meets the requirements
                       specified in the Regulations and that the remaining license
                       term is not less than 60 days.

9
Chapter Three
Classification
                                                            Chapter Three: Classification




     Article 12 1.      Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, or his designee, the
                        types, categories and classes of the tourist accommodation
                        facility, as well as the classification criteria, shall be approved
                        and published on the Ministry’s website, and shall enter into
                        force on the date of publication thereof.
                   2.   The Ministry may review and propose update of the types,
                        categories and classes of the tourist accommodation facility,
                        and the classification criteria, taking into consideration that
                        said action entails no structural modifications to the tourist
                        accommodation facility.
                   3.   The tourist accommodation facility shall be given the
                        appropriate category or class based on the classification
                        criteria approved in accordance with Paragraph (1) of this
                        Article.



     Article 13 The licensee may, within a period not exceeding 180 days from
                   the date of license issuance, apply to the Ministry to obtain a
                   classification certificate for his tourist accommodation facility.



     Article 14 When applying to the Ministry to obtain a classification certificate
                   for the tourist accommodation facility, the licensee shall satisfy the
                   criteria and points required in the classification criteria to obtain a
                   category or class for the tourist facility.


     Article 15 After the licensee applies for a classification certificate or an
                   amendment thereto and pays the fees in accordance with the Fees
                   Schedule attached to these Regulations, the Ministry shall visit the
                   tourist accommodation facility and prepare a visit report indicating
                   the type of the tourist accommodation facility and designating
                   its category or class, as well as the observations related to the
                   requested category or class, if any, and shall notify the licensee of
                   same at his official address.




11
                                                            Chapter Three: Classification




     Article 16 The Ministry shall issue the classification certificate upon the
                  licensee’s approval of the designated category or class and his
                  payment of the fees in accordance with the Fees Schedule attached
                  to these Regulations.



     Article 17 1.     The classification certificate shall contain the name, type,
                       category or class of the tourist accommodation facility, its
                       issuance and expiry dates, and any other information.
                  2.   The validity period of the classification certificate shall not
                       exceed that of the license pursuant to which the certificate
                       was issued.



     Article 18 1.     If the licensee does not agree to the designated category
                       or class pursuant to the visit report, he shall address the
                       observations related to the required category or class and shall
                       apply to the Ministry for a classification certificate.
                  2.   If the period specified in Article 13 of these Regulations
                       expires without the licensee’s approval of the designated
                       category or class based on the visit report or his failure to
                       apply for a classification certificate, the Ministry shall issue the
                       classification certificate with the lowest category or class as per
                       the type of the tourist accommodation facility.



     Article 19 1.     If the licensee wishes to renew the classification certificate, he
                       shall apply to the Ministry within 60 days prior to its expiry, and
                       shall satisfy the following requirements for renewal:
                        a. An undertaking to fulfill the requirements specified in
                        Article 14 of these Regulations.
                        b. Pay the license renewal fees, in accordance with the Fees
                        Schedule attached to these Regulations.
                  2.   After satisfying the requirements stipulated in Paragraph (1)
                       of this Article, the Ministry shall issue the renewed license with
                       the same category or class of the expired one; such renewal
                       shall take effect from the expiry date of the previous certificate
                       and for a period not exceeding the validity term of the license
                       pursuant to which the certificate was issued.


12
                                                          Chapter Three: Classification



                3.   The Ministry shall, via subsequent inspections, ensure that the
                     specific requirements for renewal are fulfilled.
                4.   The Ministry may – in the event that the licensee applies
                     for renewal of the classification certificate within the period
                     stipulated in Paragraph (1) of this Article – grant the licensee
                     a grace period, when required, not exceeding 60 days from
                     the date of expiry of the certificate, in order to complete the
                     renewal procedures; said period shall be counted from the term
                     of the renewed certificate.


     Article 20 1.   In the event that the licensee applies to amend the
                     classification certificate, the provisions of Articles 15 and 16 of
                     these Regulations shall be applied.
                2.   The Ministry may, upon detecting an observations with regard
                     to the service level provided by the tourist accommodation
                     facility based on the evaluation sources (e.g. tourist evaluation
                     of the service, complaints, inspection, hidden evaluation), carry
                     out the following:
                      a. Visit the tourist accommodation facility and prepare a
                      visit report;
                      b. Take the necessary measures in accordance with the
                      Schedule of Penalties and Violations, in the event that the
                      visit report includes evidence of a decline in the level of service
                      provided;
                      c. Issue an amended classification certificate based on the
                      procedures taken, subject to the provisions of Article 17 of
                      these Regulations.




13
Chapter Four
Exemptions
                                                             Chapter Four: Exemptions




     Article 21 The Minister, or his designee, may, pursuant to his decision, issue
                   exemptions from the requirements set forth in Articles 6 and 14 of
                   these Regulations, in accordance with the following considerations:
                   1. Needs of the tourism sector in the area or tourist destination
                       targeted in the license;
                   2. Size and expected contribution of the project vis-à-vis the
                       quality of the tourist services provided, or the creation of job
                       opportunities for Saudis, or increase of the number of units in
                       the targeted area or tourist destination; and
                   3. Any other considerations approved by a decision of the Minister.




15
Chapter Five
Ongoing Obligations
                                                   Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




     Article 22 The licensee shall:
                   1.   Abide by the terms of license throughout its validity period;
                   2.   Provide the services in accordance with the requirements and
                        standards pursuant to which the license or classification was
                        issued;
                   3.   Prevent other persons from using the license;
                   4.   Comply with the decisions, instructions, and circulars issued by
                        the Ministry;
                   5.   Allow inspectors to carry out their duties as stipulated by the
                        Law and its Regulations, as well as cooperate with them and
                        facilitate their work;
                   6.   Avoid using the Ministry’s name or logo in any promotional or
                        marketing activity without obtaining its approval; and
                   7.   Respond to the Ministry on a regular basis through the
                        representative of the tourist accommodation facility.



     Article 23 To ensure the quality of the service provided, the licensee shall
                   abide by the following:
                   1. Indicate the basic data specified in the license and classification
                       certificate, as follows:
                        a. Keep the license and the classification certificate posted in
                        a conspicuous place at the entrance or reception desk of the
                        tourist accommodation facility;
                        b. Include the trade name, license number, and category
                        or class on all electronic pages and websites of the tourist
                        accommodation facility;
                        c. Indicate the trade name and category or class on
                        e-reservation platforms upon dealing therewith;
                        d. Indicate the trade name, license number, and category
                        or class on all official documents, papers and publications, in
                        addition to the trademark, if any.
                   2. Decline to use an expired license or classification certificate;
                   3. Use images that correspond with the actual status of the
                       tourist accommodation facility upon publishing or advertising
                       same;




17
                                         Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




     4.  Apply the general health rules and conditions to the tourist
         accommodation facility and all its services, as well as to all
         employees therein;
     5. Ensure that employees at the tourist accommodation facility
         maintain personal hygiene and good appearance;
     6. Observe general cleanliness in all fixtures and equipment of the
         tourist accommodation facility, carry out regular maintenance of
         same, and ensure that they are free of any damage or defects
         that affect their use or general appearance;
     7. Notify the tourist, in sufficient time, prior to commencing any
         maintenance work and the like for the facilities or equipment
         that may cause disturbance or noise to the unit he occupies. Such
         notification shall specify the start and end time of maintenance
         works;
     8. Obtain the relevant approvals, permits and licenses from the
         competent authorities as per the law relating to the following:
          a. Organizing any events, such as conferences, exhibitions,
          training sessions, and the like;
          b. Conducting business activities at the tourist accommodation
          facility.
     9. Specify the start and end times of events and the like in the
         contracts concluded in this regard;
     10. Supervise all units at the tourist accommodation facility and
         control their management and operation.
     11. Use the Arabic or English languages and the Hijri and Gregorian
         calendars in all official dealings and publications, and answer
         phone calls and respond to e-mails as per the tourist’s wish;
     12. Present a means of communication with the manager in
         charge at the tourist accommodation facility, and indicate the
         communication channels of the Ministry at the reception desk;
     13. Receive and welcome tourists, and answer their inquiries with
         courtesy and respect;
     14. Allow the tourist to bring into the unit he occupies prepared meals,
         drinks and the like from outside the tourist accommodation
         facility; and
     15. Avoid declining to provide the service without legally acceptable
         reasons.




18
                                                   Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




     Article 24 In order to ensure the integrity of the information and data
                   submitted to the Ministry, the licensee shall:
                   1. Register all data, directly upon tourists’ check into or out of the
                      unit at the tourist accommodation facility, in the electronic
                      reservation and registration systems linked to the National
                      Tourism Monitoring Platform and Shomoos system;
                   2. Enter the required data in the National Tourism Monitoring
                      Platform as per the approved technical standards;
                   3. Provide the Ministry, upon its request, with any information or
                      data via any means it deems appropriate within the specified
                      time;
                   4. Update his data and that of the tourist accommodation
                      facility in the Ministry’s electronic system immediately after
                      any change thereof;
                   5. Maintain a copy of the tourists’ data and contracts, including
                      personal data, addresses, contact means, and unit numbers,
                      for a period of no less than one year, without prejudice to their
                      confidentiality and privacy in accordance with the relevant
                      statutory provisions



     Article 25 To ensure transparency vis-à-vis the prices of services delivered,
                   the licensee shall set and abide by a price list of these services in
                   both the Arabic and English languages, and shall announce same
                   in accordance with the controls set by the Ministry, provided that
                   said list includes the legal fees and taxes.



     Article 26 To ensure the safety and security of tourists, the licensee shall
                   abide by the following:
                   1. Maintain the confidentiality and privacy of the tourist’s
                       information, and avoid sharing or using same for any purpose
                       whatsoever without obtaining his consent;
                   2. Activate a caller ID service with secure recording devices, and
                       store information for reference when required;




19
                                     Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations



     3.  Inform the tourist of his lost and found items, and retain same
         until claimed by the tourist and set a period of at least 30 days
         to keep the lost and found items before denying responsibility
         therefor, starting from the date of notifying the tourist; if
         not possible, the competent authorities shall be notified
         accordingly;
     4. Abide by the laws and by the instructions of the competent
         authorities regarding security, health, and environmental
         aspects, as well as safety means, aid, and evacuation, and take
         all necessary measures and precautions in this regard;
     5. Maintain the security and safety of tourists and their
         belongings, which are kept at the reception or inside the unit
         they occupy throughout their stay, from risks, such as fire, gas
         leak, spoiled food and drinks, and the like;
     6. Avoid any action that would force the tourist to leave the unit
         after completing the check-in process except through the
         competent authorities and in accordance with the relevant
         statutory provisions;
     7. Avoid declining to hand over to the tourist his luggage and
         belongings that are kept at the reception desk or inside the
         unit;
     8. Observe the tourist’s privacy inside the unit he occupies upon
         providing the service;
     9. Adopt and apply safety procedures for all vehicles in the
         parking lots;
     10. Prohibit smoking in public areas within the tourist
         accommodation facility, such as the lobby, restaurants, and the
         like, and designate areas, rooms or floors for smokers in case it
         is allowed;
     11. Provide security precautions, in accordance with the controls
         and requirements of the competent authorities;
     12. Lay out special instructions and procedures relating to
         preparing and cooking food, drinks, and the like, inside the
         tourist accommodation facility, or consuming same in public
         places, such as the lobby, prior to check-in, and post these
         instructions in the room service guide and on the tourist
         facility’s website; and
     13. Report immediately and directly, via the relevant channels,
         to the competent authorities and the Ministry any incident
         related to the security and safety of tourists at the tourist
         accommodation facility.


20
                                                   Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




     Article 27 1.   The licensee shall immediately provide the tourist with an
                     alternative unit at a nearby location and of the same type,
                     category or class of the original tourist accommodation facility
                     or higher, or refund to the tourist the amount paid for the night
                     in which the service was interrupted and the remaining period
                     of the reservation, in the following cases:
                     b. Evacuation of the tourist accommodation facility on the
                          ground of imminent risks to public health or safety;
                     c. Interruption in the main services, such as electricity, water
                          and the like, for more than two hours;
                     d. Implementation of a penalty decision issued by the
                          Ministry entailing closure of the facility, or a judicial ruling
                          ordering evacuation thereof;
                  2. The licensee shall provide the tourist with an alternative unit
                     at a nearby location and of an equivalent type, category or
                     class of the original tourist accommodation facility or higher,
                     or refund to the tourist the amounts he paid in the event that
                     the tourist is present at the facility but is unable check into the
                     unit he booked for two hours.
                  3. The licensee shall, upon the issuance of an amended
                     classification certificate for the tourist accommodation
                     facility with a lower category or class, inform the tourist of
                     this amendment and of his right to request cancellation of
                     the reservation or the remaining period thereof. If the tourist
                     requests cancellation, he shall be refunded the amount paid
                     for the reservation or the remaining period thereof.

                  To ensure the rights related to the process of reservation and
     Article 28 payment for services, the licensee shall abide by the following:
                  1.   Inform the customer of the following:
                       a. The services provided, their prices, payment method, the
                            service policy, and the policies for cancelling or amending
                            the reservation;
                       b. Any maintenance work and the like that takes place during
                            his reservation period;
                       c. The time periods for using the facilities and services;
                       d. The policy regarding food and beverages entry from outside
                            the tourist accommodation facility in addition to dining in;
                       e. The policy regarding whether or not pets are allowed
                            inside the tourist accommodation facility, and the places
                            designated for them, if any.

21
                                      Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




     2.  Issue the reservation voucher and inform the customer thereof,
         provided that it includes the following:
          a. Reservation duration, prices, and free and non-free
               services provided as part of the reservation;
          b. The reservation policy and the terms for cancellation
               or amendment thereof, including the mechanism for
               cancellation or amendment request, and the specified
               periods for its acceptance or rejection.
     3. Provide the service pursuant to the provisions included in the
         reservation voucher issued by the tourist accommodation
         facility or any electronic reservation platform through which
         the services were offered;
     4. Manage, monitor, and update the services offered in any
         electronic reservation platform on a continuous basis;
     5. Record all reservations for services of all types in a special
         register that includes customers’ data, requested services,
         service dates and duration, service fees, and others;
     6. Receive tourists when vacant units are available, without
         prejudice to the absorptive capacity standards of such units;
     7. Make available an automated system linked to the National
         Tourism Monitoring Platform, to record the data of the units
         for the purpose of showing the number of occupied and
         unoccupied units, reserved and unreserved units, and units
         under maintenance;
     8. Inform tourists of the accommodation rules at the tourist
         accommodation facility, such as preserving and ensuring the
         safety of its components, respecting the rights and freedoms
         of tourists, adhering to public laws. If a violation is established,
         the licensee may rescind the reservation voucher, subject to
         the relevant statutory provisions;
     9. Inform tourists of the rules for holding an insurance amount to
         cover any damage to the unit or its contents during their stay;
     10. Verify the identification data of the guests the tourist receives
         at the unit he occupies and register same with the Shomoos
         system;
     11. Provide the tourist with a receipt for any payments made for
         the services provided in both Arabic and English, provided that
         the receipt includes the details and prices of such services;
     12. Provide a credit card point of sale, specifically for both Visa and
         MasterCard at least, as well as other types of credit cards;



22
                                                  Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




                 13. Avoid deducting or claiming any fees from the tourist’s credit
                     card account after the tourist leaves and the bill is closed
                     accordingly.
                 14. Avoid receiving a tourist without a valid proof of identity,
                     provided that it is verified by examining its original at check-in
                     and its data recorded only without requesting or taking a copy
                     thereof; in emergency cases, tourists who do not carry proof
                     of identity may be received after obtaining approval from the
                     competent authorities.
                 15. Specify times for checking the tourist into and out of the unit,
                     provided that the time set for the tourist to occupy the unit on
                     the day of check-in and check-out be not less than 20 hours.
                 16. Receive and keep the tourist’s baggage and provide a suitable
                     waiting place for him where drinks or meals are served for free
                     in the event that he is not able to enter his reserved unit at the
                     time specified; and
                 17. Avoid requiring that the unit reservation period be more than
                     one night in order to accept the reservation.



     Article 29 To ensure the efficiency of its employees at the tourist
                 accommodation facility, the licensee shall carry out the following:
                 1. Ensure that the manager, unless he is registered as a manager
                     in the licensed commercial register, possesses the necessary
                     powers to operate the facility, and that he satisfies the following
                     conditions and qualifications:
                      a. An academic qualification of not less than a bachelor’s
                      degree in one of the following specializations: hotels,
                      hospitality, tourism or management, with at least three years
                      of practical experience in his relevant field, or an academic
                      qualification of not less than a bachelor’s degree in any other
                      specialization with at least five years of practical experience in
                      the field of tourism and hotels;
                      b. An academic qualification of not less than a diploma in
                      one of the following specializations: hotels, hospitality, tourism
                      or management, with at least five years of practical experience
                      in his relevant field, or an academic qualification of not less
                      than a diploma in any other specialization with at least seven
                      years of practical experience in the field of tourism and hotels;
                      c. Spoken and written fluency in both the Arabic and English
                      languages.

23
                                     Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations




     2.   Ensure that the staff, including heads of departments, units,
          and administrations, and employees directly in contact
          with tourists, are qualified and that they hold certificates of
          specialized training programs in their field of work;
     3.   Register the data of all actual employees at the tourist
          accommodation facility, whether they are directly associated
          with the licensee or hired pursuant to operational contracts,
          including personal data, qualifications, experience, etc., with
          the Ministry within a period not exceeding three months, and
          update same as per any changes that may occur;
     4.   Abide by the instructions issued by the Ministry, based on
          coordination between the Ministry and the competent
          authorities, with regard to work controls, and implementation
          of the administrative and specialized employee training plans.




24
Chapter Six
General Provisions
                                                        Chapter Six: General Provisions




     Article 30 1.      Any practitioner of the activity of operating a tourist
                        accommodation facility shall be subject to inspection in
                        accordance with the Law, Regulations and procedural guides
                        set by the Ministry for this purpose.
                   2.   Penalties shall be implemented against any violation of the
                        provisions of the Law and its Regulations pursuant to the Table
                        of Violations and Penalties referred to in Article 16(5) of the
                        Law.



     Article 31 Without prejudice to relevant laws, the Ministry may seek the
                   assistance of specialized technical companies or agencies to
                   carry out certain tasks entrusted thereto under the Law and its
                   Regulations, provided that they have sufficient trained technical
                   personnel and experience as per the tasks assigned thereto as
                   specified by the Ministry, in accordance with the provisions of the
                   Law and its Regulations.



     Article 32 The procedural guides required to implement the provisions of these
                   Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the Minister or
                   his designee, upon the recommendation of the Ministry, and shall
                   be updated in the same manner. These guides shall be published
                   on the Ministry’s official website, and shall enter into force as of the
                   date of publication thereof.


     Article 33 The Ministry may coordinate with the competent authority to
                   provide the Ministry with reports, information and data prepared
                   by said authority pursuant to its review or study of the financial
                   statements of the entities licensed to practice the activity of
                   operating a tourist accommodation facility in accordance with the
                   provisions of Article 9(3) of the Law.




26
                                                    Chapter Six: General Provisions




     Article 34 Any correspondence sent by the Ministry to the practitioners of
                  the activity of operating a tourist accommodation facility at their
                  official addresses shall be deemed an official notification.




     Article 35 These Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the
                  Minister. They shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall
                  enter into force as of the effective date of the Law




27
                                                                                          Fees Schedule


          Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
          Facility

                                                                            License Duration
                  Service                   Total Rooms          One Year       Two Years Three Years
                                                                                Fees (SAR)
           License Issuance                      +500             12,500         17,500          22,500
         (Hotels, Resorts, Villa               499-300            10,000         13,500          17,000
           Hotels, Heritage                    299-100             5,000          7,500          10,000
        Hotels, and temporary
       Accommodation Facility)                   99-1              2,500          3,750           5,000

     *In license renewal for temporary accommodation facility, the value fee per three months is %25 of
     the one year depends on total rooms.

                   Service                  Class Category                      Fees (SAR)
                                             5 Stars Luxury                        10,000
        Class Certificate Issuance               5 Stars                           7,500
        (Hotels, Resorts and Villa               4 Stars                           5,000
                  Hotels)                        3 Stars                           3,000
                                                 2 Stars                          No fees


                                                                           License Duration
                 Service                    Total Units         One Year       Two Years      Three Years
                                                                               Fees (SAR)
                                                 +71              2,500           3,750           5,000
           License Issuance
                                               70-31              2,000           3,000           4,000
          (Hotel Apartments)
                                                30-1              1,500           2,200           2,900




28
                                                                                           Fees Schedule


          Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
          Facility

                  Service                         Class Category                       Fees (SAR)
                                              6 Stars -5 Stars Luxury                      2,500
                                                         5 Stars                           2,000
       Class Certificate Issuance
                                                         4 Stars                           1,000
          (Hotel Apartments)
                                                         3 Stars                            500
                                                         2 Stars                           No fees
                                                                    License Duration
                    Service                        One Year            Two Years            Three Years
                                                                        Fees (SAR)
              License Issuance
                                                     4,000                 6,000              8,000
                 (Camping)
     * The fees is (1000) SAR per three months for less than a year license

                  Service                   Class Category                         Fees (SAR)
                                                  5 Stars                           No fees
       Class certificate Issuance
                                                  4 Stars                           No fees
              (Camping)
                                                  3 Stars                           No fees

                                                                              License Duration
                 Service                   Totals Units          One Year       Two Years      Three Years
                                                                                 Fees (SAR)
          License Issuance                    71 - 100             2,000           3,000           4,000
     (Serviced Apartments and                  31 - 70             1,500           2,250           3,000
     Chalets “Holiday Houses”)                  1 - 30             1,000           1,500           2,000




29
                                                                                                                           Fees Schedule


            Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
            Facility


                           Service                              Class Category                                   Fees (SAR)

           Class Certificate Issuance                                First Class                                    No fees
           (Serviced Apartments and
           Chalets “Holiday Houses”)                                  Economy                                       No fees


                                                                                           License Duration
                          Service
                                                                     One Year                      Two Years                     Three Years
                                                                                                 Fees (SAR)
                  License Issuance
                                                                                                   No fees
                      (Hostels)


                                                                                                      License Duration
                        Service                            Total Rooms                One Year              Two Years             Three Years
                                                                                                            Fees (SAR)
      License and Class Certificate                              +500                    5,000                10,000                15,000
                 Renewal                                      499-300                    3,500                  7,000               10,500
        (Hotels, Resorts, Villa Ho-
        tels, Heritage Hotels, and                            299-100                    2,500                  5,000                7,500
      temporary Accommodation
                                                                  99-1                   1,250                  2,500                3,750
                  Facility)
     * In license renewal for temporary hotels, the value fee per three months is %25 of the one year depends on Total rooms .
     *Heritage hotels and temporary accommodation facility do not require a class certification.




30
                                                                           Fees Schedule


        Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
        Facility

                                                              License Duration
               Service               Total Units   One Year Two Years         Three Years
                                                                 Fees (SAR)
     License and Class Certificate      +71         1,250          2,500         3,750
               Renewal                 70-31        1,000          2,000         3,000
         (Hotel Apartments)             30-1         700           1,400         2,100

                                                     License Duration
                Service                 One Year       Two Years           Three Years
                                                        Fees (SAR)
     License and Class Certificate
               Renewal                   2,000             4,000              6,000
              (Camping)

                                                              License Duration
                                       Total
                Service                            One Year     Two Years     Three Years
                                       Units
                                                                 Fees (SAR)
     License and Class Certificate    100-71        1,000          2,000         3,000
               Renewal                 31-70         750           1,500         2,250
      (Serviced Apartments and
      Chalets “ Holiday Houses”)        1-30         500           1,000         1,500

                                                     License Duration
                Service                 One Year       Two Years           Three Years
                                                        Fees (SAR)
           License Renewal
                                                           No fees
               (Hostels)




31
                                                             Fees Schedule


        Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
        Facility


           Service                Class Category       Fees (SAR)
                             6 Stars -5 Stars Luxury     7,500
      Class Amendment                5 Stars             5,000
     (Hotels, Resorts, and           4 Stars             3,500
         Villa Hotels)               3 Stars             2,000
                                     2 Stars            No fees


           Service                Class Category       Fees (SAR)
                             6 Stars -5 Stars Luxury      500
                                      5 Stars             500
      Class Amendment
                                      4 Stars           No fees
     (Hotel Apartments)
                                      3 Stars           No fees
                                      2 Stars           No fees


               Service               Class Category    Fees (SAR)
      Class certificate Amend-           5 Stars        No fees
                ment                     4 Stars        No fees
             (Camping)                   3 Stars        No fees


               Service               Class Category    Fees (SAR)
          Class Certificate            First Class      No fees
            Amendment
     (Serviced Apartments and
                                        Economy         No fees
     Chalets “ Holiday Houses”)




32
                                                                      Fees Schedule


       Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
       Facility


                       Service                                Fees (SAR)
       Transferring License Ownership and Class
                       Certificate
                                                                  500
     (Apply on all types of Tourist Accommodation
                         Facility)
      Change Commercial Register or Trademark
     (Apply on all types of Tourist Accommodation               No fees
                         Facility)
                      Visit Request
                                                    500 per an additional visit after
     (Apply on all types of Tourist Accommodation
                                                           the first two visit
                         Facility)
        Temporary Closure (Entirely or Partially)
     (Apply on all types of Tourist Accommodation               No fees
                         Facility)
             Permanent Closure (Partially)
     (Apply on all types of Tourist Accommodation               No fees
                         Facility)
                  License Cancellation
     (Apply on all types of Tourist Accommodation
                                                                No fees
                         Facility)




33
