Regulations
for Tourist Accommodation
Facility Management

This translation is provided
for guidance. The governing
text is the Arabic text.
     Contents
    Description                            Page No.

    Chapter One: Introductory Provisions      3

    Chapter Two: License                      6

    Chapter Three: Exemptions                11

    Chapter Four: Ongoing Obligations        13

    Chapter Five: General Provisions          17

    Fees Schedule                             20




2
Chapter One
Introductory Provisions
                                             Chapter One: Introductory Provisions




    Article 1   In these Regulations, the following terms and phrases shall have the
                meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:

                Law: Tourism Law
                Regulations: Regulations for Tourist accommodation facility
                management
                Ministry: Ministry of Tourism.
                Minister: Minister of Tourism.
                Tourist Accommodation Facility Management: To provide
                support services to the operator of a tourist accommodation facility
                and a private tourist accommodation facility based on specialized
                technical experience in managing facilities, services, and skills that
                are compatible with the type, category, or class of the facility.
                License: A document issued by the Ministry enabling its holder
                to practice the activity of tourist accommodation facility
                management.
                Licensee: Any person with a legal capacity who has obtained a
                license from the Ministry in accordance with the Law and its
                Regulations.
                Tourist Accommodation Facility Management Office: A
                place through which a licensee practices the activity of tourist
                accommodation facility management.
                Head Office: A tourist accommodation facility management office
                through which a licensee’s branch office is managed and regulated.
                Branch Office: A tourist accommodation facility management
                office that administratively and organizationally reports to the
                head office.
                Tourist Accommodation Facility: Any place that provides
                accommodation service for a tourist in return for a fee, and is
                operating either on a permanent or temporary basis.
                Private Tourist Accommodation Facility: An independent
                furnished real estate unit owned by an individual and licensed by
                the Ministry that provides accommodation service for a tourist in
                return for a fee.




4
                                             Chapter One: Introductory Provisions




                Procedural Guide: A document that includes instructions,
                guidelines, criteria, and the like, to specify the detailed procedures
                complementary to these Regulations, in accordance with the
                provisions of the Law and its Regulations.
                Official Address: The address registered in the license, the national
                address, or the contact information of the activity practitioner,
                whatever their types, as obtained by the Ministry.




                These Regulations set up rules for practicing the activity of tourist
    Article 2   accommodation facility management, and specify the procedures,
                controls, and conditions for licensing as required for practicing said
                activity, in addition to the ongoing obligations to be met by the
                licensee, and the general provisions.




5
Chapter Two
License
                                                                 Chapter Two: License




    Article 3   A tourist accommodation facility management activity may not
                be practiced without obtaining a license, nor after the expiry or
                cancellation of said license or during its suspension period.




    Article 4   A tourist accommodation facility management activity shall be
                licensed pursuant to the following classifications:
                1. Class A: for the management of all types of tourist
                     accommodation facilities and private tourist accommodation
                     facilities;
                2. Class B: for the management of 4-star tourist accommodation
                     facilities and less, and all other unclassified categories and
                     types, and private tourist accommodation facilities;
                3. Class C: for the management of 3-star or first-class tourist
                     accommodation facilities and less, as well as other unclassified
                     types, and private tourist accommodation facilities;
                4. Class D: for the management of first-class tourist
                     accommodation facilities and less, as well as other unclassified
                     types and private tourist accommodation facilities.




    Article 5   To obtain licensing for a tourist accommodation facility
                management activity, experience shall be required as follows:
                1. Class A: four years’ experience in the operation or management
                   of a 5-star tourist accommodation facility;
                2. Class B: four years’ experience in the operation or management
                   of a 4-star tourist accommodation facility;
                3. Class C: three years’ experience in the operation or management
                   of a 3-star tourist accommodation facility;
                4. Class D: two years’ experience in the operation or management
                   of types of facilities classified by degrees and other unclassified
                   types of facilities.




7
                                                                 Chapter Two: License




    Article 6   Subject to the provisions of Article 5 of this Law, any applicant for
                license from the Ministry shall provide the following documents:
                1. A valid commercial register providing for the activity of tourist
                     accommodation facility management;
                2. A valid license from the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
                     and Housing or the competent authority, as the case may be;
                3. Proof of experience as per the required class, and authentication
                     thereof by the competent authority in the event that it was
                     obtained outside the Kingdom;
                4. Documents related to the mechanisms of tourist
                     accommodation facility management, as defined by the
                     Ministry;
                5. Official data of the applicant and his representative in dealing
                     with the Ministry in relation to the activity, if any, and office
                     data; and
                6. Proof of the right to use the trademark, if any.
                The applicant shall fill out the license application form prepared by
                the Ministry.



    Article 7   The Ministry shall issue the license upon the applicant’s fulfillment
                of the requirements set forth in Article 6 of these Regulations,
                and its payment of the license fees in accordance with the Fees
                Schedule attached to these Regulations.



    Article 8   1.   The license shall contain the licensee’s data, class, the issuing
                     and expiry dates of the license, and any other information
                     specified by the Ministry.
                2.   The validity period of the license shall not exceed three years,
                     and shall be renewable.




8
                                                                   Chapter Two: License




    Article 9     Each branch office shall obtain an independent license; said license
                  shall be of the same class as that of the head office.




    Article 10 1.      A licensee shall, in the event of intending to renew the license,
                       apply to the Ministry within 60 days prior to its expiration, and
                       shall satisfy the conditions required for renewal as follows:
                        a. Meet the requirements set forth in Article 6 of these
                        Regulations, as per the license class;
                        b. Pay the required fees in accordance with the Fees Schedule
                        attached to these Regulations.
                  2.   Upon fulfillment of the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Article,
                       the Ministry shall issue the renewed license, which shall take
                       effect as of the date of expiry of the previous license for a
                       period not exceeding three years.



    Article 11 The licensee shall obtain the Ministry’s approval and shall pay the
                  required fees in accordance with the Fees Schedule attached to
                  these Regulations, if any, prior to carrying out any of the following:
                  1. Temporary closure of the tourist accommodation facility
                      management office, provided that the office notifies all
                      persons affected by such closure, and terminates all existing
                      obligations during the closure period;
                  2. Permanent closure of the tourist accommodation facility
                      management office and request for license cancellation,
                      provided that the office notifies all persons affected by such
                      closure, and terminates all existing obligations during the
                      closure period;
                  3. Change of the location of the tourist accommodation facility
                      management office; and/or
                  4. Cancellation or amendment of the commercial register, trade
                      name, or trademark, including changing same on the external
                      sign of the tourist accommodation facility management office.




9
                                                                   Chapter Two: License




     Article 12 The licensee shall, upon cancellation of the head office license
                  while retaining a license for a branch office affiliated with said
                  office, carry out the following:
                  1. Name an alternative head office – within a period not
                       exceeding 15 days from the date of cancellation – that meets
                       all the requirements set forth in these Regulations in the event
                       that the cancellation is based on the provisions of the Law and
                       its Regulations; and
                  2. Name an alternative head office that meets all the requirements
                       set forth in these Regulations in the event that the cancellation
                       was at its request, prior to license cancellation.




10
Chapter Three
Exemptions
                                                            Chapter Three: Exemptions




     Article 13 The Minister, or his designee, may issue exemptions from the
                  requirements set forth in Article 5 and Article 6(3) and 6(4) of these
                  Regulations, pursuant to the following considerations:
                  1. Needs of the tourism sector in the Kingdom;
                  2. Size and expected contribution of the project vis-à-vis the
                      quality of the services provided, or the provision of job
                      opportunities for Saudis; and
                  3. Any other considerations approved by a decision of the Minister.




12
Chapter Four
Ongoing Obligations
                                                   Chapter Four: Ongoing Obligations




     Article 14 The licensee shall:
                   1.   Comply with the license requirements throughout its validity
                        period;
                   2.   Provide services as prescribed in the license issued thereto;
                   3.   Prevent other persons from using its license;
                   4.   Abide by the decisions, instructions and circulars issued by the
                        Ministry;
                   5.   Allow inspectors to perform their duties as set forth in the Law
                        and its Regulations, and cooperate with them and facilitate
                        their work;
                   6.   Avoid using the Ministry’s name or logo in any promotional or
                        marketing activity, except after obtaining its approval; and
                   7.   Respond to the Ministry on a continuous basis through
                        the representative of the tourist accommodation facility
                        management office.



     Article 15 To ensure the quality of the service provided, the licensee shall
                   abide by the followingl:
                   1. Indicate the basic data specified in the license, as follows:
                        a. Keep the license posted in a conspicuous place at the
                        premises of the tourist accommodation facility management
                        office;
                        b. Include the trade name and the license number and class on
                        all its electronic pages and websites;
                        c. Indicate the trade name and the license number and class
                        on all official documents, papers and publications, in addition
                        to the trademark, if any.
                   2. Decline to use an expired license;
                   3. Use the data and information in the license on an as-is basis
                       in all dealings;
                   4. Provide service and administrative and technical support
                       to achieve the quality of services provided by the tourist
                       accommodation facility or the private tourist accommodation
                       facility pursuant to the license, classification or permit granted
                       thereto for the facility under management;




14
                                                   Chapter Four: Ongoing Obligations




               5.  Apply the general health rules and conditions to the tourist
                   accommodation facility management office and its services, and
                   to all employees therein;
               6. Ensure that employees at the tourist accommodation facility
                   management office maintain personal hygiene and good
                   appearance;
               7. Maintain general cleanliness in all fixtures at the tourist
                   accommodation facility management office;
               8. Use the Arabic or English languages and the Hijri and Gregorian
                   calendars in all official dealings and publications, and answer
                   phone calls and respond to e-mails as per the client’s wish;
               9. Avoid dealing with persons not licensed or authorized by the
                   Ministry or by the competent authorities upon marketing,
                   arranging or providing services;
               10. Ensure the employment of a unified management and clear
                   administrative structure for all departments;
               11. Notify persons whose contracts will be valid pursuant to the
                   contracts concluded with them during the temporary closure
                   period of the procedures to be taken with them, without prejudice
                   to their rights contained in such contracts;
               12. Avoid declining to provide services without legally acceptable
                   reasons.




     Article 16 To ensure the integrity of the information and data provided, the
                    licensee shall:
                    1. Provide the Ministry, upon its request, with any information or
                         data by any means it deems appropriate and within the period
                         it specifies;
                    2. Update its data and that of the tourist accommodation
                         facility management office in the Ministry’s electronic system
                         immediately in the event of any change thereof; and
                    3. Keep a copy of the contracts, correspondence, documents and
                         other papers related to the tourist accommodation facility
                         management for a period of no less than one year.




15
                                                   Chapter Four: Ongoing Obligations




     Article 17 To ensure the efficiency of its employees, the licensee, as the case
                   may be, shall carry out the following:
                   1. Ensure that the manager, unless he is registered as a manager
                      in the licensed commercial register, possesses the necessary
                      powers to manage the activity, and that he satisfies the
                      following conditions and qualifications:
                       a. An academic qualification of not less than a bachelor’s
                       degree in one of the following disciplines: hotels, hospitality,
                       tourism or management, with at least three years of practical
                       experience in his relevant field, or an academic qualification of
                       not less than a bachelor’s degree in any other specialization
                       with at least five years of practical experience in the field of
                       tourism and hotels;
                       b. An academic qualification of not less than a diploma in
                       one of the following disciplines: hotels, hospitality, tourism or
                       management, with at least five years of practical experience in
                       his relevant field, or an academic qualification of not less than
                       a diploma in any other specialization with at least seven years
                       of practical experience in the field of tourism and hotels;
                       c. Fluency, both spoken and written, in both Arabic and
                       English languages.
                   2. Ensure that the staff, including heads of departments, units,
                      and administrations, and employees directly in contact
                      with clients, are qualified and that they hold certificates of
                      specialized training programs in their field of work;
                   3. Register the data of all employees (personal data, qualifications,
                      experience, etc.) with the Ministry, and update same, within a
                      period not exceeding three months, in case of any deletion or
                      addition, as per the changes that may occur;
                   4. Comply with the instructions issued by the Ministry, based on
                      joint coordination between the Ministry and the competent
                      authorities, with regard to work controls, and implement
                      administrative and specialized training plans for employees.




16
Chapter Five
General Provisions
                                                       Chapter Five: General Provisions




     Article 18 1.      A person practicing a tourist accommodation facility
                        management activity shall be subject to inspection in
                        accordance with the Law, Regulations and procedural guides
                        set by the Ministry for this purpose.
                   2.   Penalties shall be implemented against any violation of the
                        provisions of the Law and its Regulations pursuant to the
                        Schedule of Violations and Penalties referred to in Article 16(5)
                        of the Law.



     Article 19 Without prejudice to relevant laws, the Ministry may seek the
                   assistance of specialized technical companies or agencies, provided
                   that they have sufficient trained technical personnel and experience
                   as per the tasks assigned thereto as determined by the Ministry, in
                   accordance with the provisions of the Law and its Regulations.




     Article 20 The procedural guides required to implement the provisions of these
                   Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the Minister or
                   his designee, upon the recommendation of the Ministry, and shall
                   be updated in the same manner. These guides shall be published
                   on the Ministry’s official website, and shall enter into force as of the
                   date of publication thereof.



     Article 21 The Ministry may coordinate with the competent authority to
                   provide the Ministry with reports, information and data prepared
                   by said authority pursuant to its review or study of the financial
                   statements of the entities licensed to practice the activity of tourist
                   accommodation facility management in accordance with the
                   provisions of Article 9(3) of the Law.




18
                                                    Chapter Five: General Provisions




     Article 22 Any correspondence sent by the Ministry, pursuant to these
                  Regulations, to the practitioners of tourism accommodation facility
                  management at their official addresses shall be deemed an official
                  notification.



     Article 23 These Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the
                  Minister. They shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall
                  enter into force as of the effective date of the Law.




19
                                                                      Fees Schedule


        Fees Schedule for the Activity of Tourist Accommodation
        Facility Management

                                                  License Duration
               Service                 One Year     Two Years           Three Years
                                                     Fees (SAR)
           License Issuance             2,250         3,200               4,150

                                                  License Duration
               Service                 One Year     Two Years           Three Years
                                                     Fees (SAR)
           License Renewal               950          1,900               2,850

                                                  License Duration
               Service                 One Year     Two Years           Three Years
                                                     Fees (SAR)
      License Issuance for Branch
                                        1,000         2,000               3,000
                 Office

                      Service                              Fees (SAR)

              Change Office Location                            400
     Change Commercial Register or Trademark
                                                              No fees
                  (Offices)
                Temporary Closure                             No fees

                License Cancelation                           No fees




20
