Regulations
for Private Tourist
Accommodation Facility

This translation is provided
for guidance. The governing
text is the Arabic text.
     Contents
    Description                            Page No.

    Chapter One: Introductory Provisions     3

    Chapter Two: Authorization               5

    Chapter Three: Ongoing Obligations       8

    Chapter Four: General Provisions         12

    Fees Schedule                            14




2
Chapter One
Introductory Provisions
                                                 Chapter One: Introductory Provisions




                In these Regulations, the following terms and phrases shall have the
    Article 1   meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:

                Law: Tourism Law
                Regulations: Regulations for Private Tourist Accommodation
                Ministry: Ministry of Tourism.
                Minister: Minister of Tourism.
                Private Tourist Accommodation Facility: An independent
                furnished real estate unit owned by an individual and licensed by
                the Ministry that provides accommodation service for a tourist in
                return for a fee.
                Travel and Tourism Service Provider: A person licensed to provide
                marketing and reservation management services for the units of
                the private tourist accommodation facility.
                Permit: A document issued by the Ministry approving the practice
                of a private tourist accommodation facility activity.
                Authorized person: Any person with a natural capacity who has
                obtained a permit from the Ministry in accordance with the Law
                and its Regulations.
                Tourist: Any person with a natural capacity who, for the purpose
                of tourism, lawfully stays for a period of no less than one night
                outside his regular place of residence, or makes use of one or more
                tourist, complementary, and specialized services.
                Procedural Guide: A document that includes instructions,
                guidelines, criteria, or others to specify the detailed procedures
                complementary to these Regulations, in accordance with the
                provisions of the Law and its Regulations.
                Official Address: The address registered in the permit, the national
                address, or the contact information of the activity practitioner,
                whatever their types, as obtained by the Ministry.

                These Regulations set up rules for regulating the practice of private
                tourist accommodation facility activity, and specify the controls,
    Article 2   conditions, and procedures for obtaining the permit, as well as the
                ongoing obligations to be observed, and the general provisions.



4
Chapter Two
Authorization
                                                        Chapter Two: Authorization




                A private tourist accommodation facility activity may not be
    Article 3   practiced without obtaining a permit, nor after the expiry or
                cancellation thereof, nor during its suspension period.


                The controls for issuing a permit shall be as follows:
                1. The private tourist accommodation facility shall be located
    Article 4       within a real property designated for residential use.
                2. The total number of permits issued to an authorized person
                    shall not exceed a maximum of 3 permits on the same real
                    property.
                The Minister – or his designee – may by a decision he makes and for
                considerations that the Ministry deems appropriate, suspend the
                issuance of the permit for a specified period in any geographical
                area.


                An applicant for a permit from the Ministry shall fulfill the following
    Article 5   requirements:
                1. Be a Saudi national;
                2. Provide an electronic title deed or lease contract establishing
                    ownership or usufruct of the real property subject of the permit,
                    where applicable;
                3. Not be objected by the owners in a joint real property where
                    the private tourist accommodation facility is located as a daily
                    rent.
                4. Provide updated official data of the applicant and the private
                    tourist accommodation facility.
                The applicant shall fill out the permit application form.




6
                                                        Chapter Two: Authorization




                Without prejudice to the requirements set forth in Article 5 of these
                Regulations, an applicant for permit shall, if the number of permits
    Article 6   issued thereto exceeds eight permits, submit a valid contract
                for managing the authorized facilities with a licensed tourist
                accommodation facility management service provider, covering
                the validity period of these permits.

                Without prejudice to the power of the Minister set forth in Article 4
                of these Regulations, The Ministry shall issue the permit upon the
    Article 7   applicant’s fulfillment of the requirements set forth in Articles 4, 5,
                and 6 of these Regulations, and his payment of the permit fees in
                accordance with the Fees Regulations.


                1.   The permit shall contain the data of the authorized person and
                     the private tourist accommodation facility, the validity and
    Article 8        expiry dates of the permit, and any other information that the
                     Ministry deems appropriate to be included therein.
                2.   The validity period of the permit shall not exceed one year.



                An authorized person intending to cancel his permit shall apply to
                the Ministry for approval thereof, provided that he terminates all
    Article 9   existing obligations based thereon.




7
Chapter Three
Ongoing Obligations
                                             Chapter Three Ongoing Obligations




                 The authorized person shall:
                 1. comply with the controls and conditions of the permit;
    Article 10   2. provide the service as prescribed in the permit issued thereto;
                 3. prevent other persons from using the permit;
                 4. abide by the decisions, instructions and circulars issued by the
                     Ministry;
                 5. allow inspectors to perform their duties, cooperate with them,
                     and facilitate their work;
                 6. avoid using the Ministry’s name or logo in any promotional or
                     marketing activity, except after obtaining its approval; and
                 7. Respond to the Ministry on a continuous basis through the
                     representative of the private tourist accommodation facility.


                 To ensure the quality of the service provided, the authorized person
                 shall abide by the following:
    Article 11
                 1. Indicate the basic data specified in the permit in a conspicuous
                     place to the tourist inside the private tourist accommodation
                     facility;
                 2. Avoid using an expired permit;
                 3. Use data and information corresponding with the permit and
                     actual images of the private tourist accommodation facility
                     upon publishing or advertising same;
                 4. Show general instructions for the use of the private tourist
                     accommodation facility through the travel and tourism service
                     provider in a conspicuous place within the facility, provided
                     that these instructions include the following: use of car parks,
                     waste removal, whereabouts of instructions for using devices,
                     prohibited actions, how to deal with lost items, and numbers
                     of customer service, tourist phone, and emergency offices, etc.;
                 5. Apply the general health rules and conditions to the private
                     tourist accommodation facility and all its services, and to all
                     employees therein;
                 6. Maintain general cleanliness and environmental conservation
                     in all equipment and fixtures of the private tourist
                     accommodation facility, such as adequate ventilation,
                     cleanliness and safety of furniture and equipment, safety of
                     ceilings and walls, etc.;



9
                                               Chapter Three Ongoing Obligations




                  7.  Ensure that the private tourist accommodation facility is well
                      prepared, clean and properly maintained to receive tourists
                      before their check-in;
                  8. Use the Arabic or English languages, and the Hijri and
                      Gregorian calendars, in all official dealings and publications, as
                      per the tourist’s wish, if any;
                  9. Avoid declining to provide the service without legally acceptable
                      reasons in the event of a confirmed reservation;
                  10. Avoid offering reservation services for the private tourist
                      accommodation facility or marketing and advertising same
                      except through the travel and tourism service providers;
                  11. Ensure regular update of the data and information of the
                      private tourist accommodation facility with the travel and
                      tourism service provider; and
                  12. Indicate the absorptive capacity of the private tourist
                      accommodation facility upon marketing same and ensure that
                      customers adhere thereto.


                  To ensure the integrity of the information and data provided, the
                  authorized person shall:
     Article 12   1. provide the Ministry, upon its request, with any information or
                      data by any means it deems appropriate and within the period
                      it specifies; and
                  2. update his data and that of the private tourist accommodation
                      facility in the Ministry’s electronic system immediately in the
                      event of any change.

                  To ensure transparency vis-à-vis the prices of services delivered, the
                  authorized person shall set and abide by a price list of these services
     Article 13   in both the Arabic and English languages, and shall announce
                  same to tourists through the travel and tourism service provider, in
                  accordance with the controls set by the Ministry, provided that said
                  list includes the legal fees and taxes.




10
                                              Chapter Three Ongoing Obligations




                  To ensure the safety and security of the tourist, the authorized
                  person shall:
     Article 14   1. maintain the confidentiality and privacy of the tourist’s
                      information, and avoid sharing or using same for any purpose
                      whatsoever without obtaining his consent;
                  2. comply with the laws and the instructions of the competent
                      authorities regarding security, health, and environmental
                      aspects, safety means, first-aid, evacuation, etc., and take all
                      measures and precautions to achieve the same;
                  3. avoid any action that would force the tourist to leave the unit
                      after checking in, except through the competent authorities,
                      and in accordance with the relevant statutory provisions;
                  4. avoid entering the tourist’s unit, without obtaining his
                      permission, and whether he is present or not therein, except
                      after coordination with the competent authorities;
                  5. ensure the tourist’s safety from risks, such as fire, gas leak,
                      spoiled food and drinks, etc.;
                  6. provide security precautions, in accordance with the controls
                      and requirements of the competent authorities;
                  7. provide safety tools, such as fire extinguishers, fire suppression
                      covers, smoke detectors, first aid kits;
                  8. report immediately and directly to the competent authorities
                      any incident related to the tourist’s security and safety, or to
                      the private tourist accommodation facility and its employees,
                      if any; and
                  9. Avoid receiving a tourist without a valid proof of identity,
                      provided that it is verified by examining its original at check-
                      in and matching same with the reservation data, without
                      requesting or taking a copy thereof; in emergency cases,
                      tourists who do not have proof of identity may be received
                      after obtaining approval from the competent authorities.


                  To guarantee the rights related to reservation and payment
                  procedures, the authorized person shall:
     Article 15   1. remove the advertisement and display of the private tourist
                      accommodation facility from the online reservation platforms
                      upon any temporary suspension of the service;
                  2. decline to claim or receive any amounts from the tourist except
                      through the travel and tourism service provider;
                  3. avoid providing any additional services to the tourist unless
                      they were previously announced by the travel and tourism
                      service provider; and
                  4. allow the tourist to enter and exit the private tourist
                      accommodation facility at the times specified in the reservation
                      document issued by the travel and tourism service provider.



11
Chapter Four
General Provisions
                                                     Chapter Four: General Provisions




                   1.   Any practitioner of a private tourist accommodation facility
                        activity shall be subject to inspection in accordance with the
     Article 16         Law, Regulations and procedural guides set by the Ministry for
                        this purpose.
                   2.   Penalties shall be implemented against any violation of the
                        provisions of the Law and its Regulations in accordance with
                        the Table set forth to in Article 16(5) of the Law.

                   Without prejudice to relevant laws, the Ministry may seek the
                   assistance of specialized technical companies or agencies to
     Article 17    carry out certain tasks entrusted thereto under the Law and its
                   Regulations, provided that they have sufficient trained technical
                   personnel and experience as per the tasks assigned thereto as
                   specified by the Ministry, in accordance with the provisions of the
                   Law and its Regulations.

                   The procedural guides required to implement the provisions of
                   these Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the
     Article 18    Minister, or his designee, upon the recommendation of the Ministry,
                   and shall be updated in the same manner. These guides shall be
                   published on the Ministry’s official website, and shall enter into
                   force as of the date of publication thereof.


                   Any correspondence sent by the Ministry to the practitioners of
     Article 19 the private tourist accommodation facility activity at their official
                   addresses shall be deemed an official notification.




     Article 20 These  Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette and
                shall enter into force as of the effective date of the Law.




13
                                                    Fees Schedule



     Fees Schedule for Private Tourist Accommodation Facility



               Service                       Fees (SAR)

            Permit Issuance                    1,100




14
