Tourism Law

This translation is provided
for guidance. The governing
text is the Arabic text.
                                                                        Tourism Law




    Article One   In this Law, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings
                  assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:

                  Law: Tourism Law.
                  Regulation: One or more regulations issued for the implementation
                  of the provisions of this Law.
                  Ministry: Ministry of Tourism.
                  Minister: Minister of Tourism.
                  Tourism: The temporary travel or movement of an individual
                  or group of individuals to, from, or within the Kingdom, for any
                  tourism purpose; or the utilization of one or more tourism services
                  as well as complementary and specialized tourism services.
                  Tourist: A natural person who legally stays for a period of not less
                  than one night outside his usual place of residence for the purpose
                  of tourism, or utilizes one or more tourism services as well as
                  complementary and specialized tourism services.
                  Strategy: The approved general strategy for the development of
                  national tourism.
                  Tourist Resources: Any natural or material resources of touristic
                  value, including natural landmarks and destinations as well as sites
                  and buildings of historical or archaeological significance, and the
                  like.
                  Tourism Destination: Any geographical area or location where
                  tourism activities are practiced or targeted, or which contains
                  tourism resources, as specified in Article 6 of this Law.
                  Tourist Facility: Any real property, building, or place licensed by
                  the Ministry where a tourism activity or the like is practiced.
                  Travel and Tourism Services: Arranging, organizing, and providing
                  tourism-related services, including tours and tourism programs, the
                  sale and marketing of travel tickets by licensed companies, visa
                  issuance services or other travel-related services, services related
                  to tourism activities or accommodation facilities and reservation
                  thereof, and the like.




2                                                                                        2
                                                                            Tourism Law


                  Tourist Guidance: The practice of guiding tourists at tourist
                  destinations and other places.
                  Tourist Accommodation Facility: Any place that provides tourist
                  accommodation for a fee, whether operating on a permanent or
                  temporary basis.
                  Tourism Activities: Any activity under the jurisdiction of the
                  Ministry, including tourist guidance, travel and tourism services,
                  management or operation of accommodation facilities, provision
                  of tourism consultations, experiential activities, and the like, as
                  specified by the Regulations, as well as any activity determined
                  pursuant to a Council of Ministers’ resolution to be subject to
                  licensing by the Ministry, upon a proposal from the Minister.
                  Specialized Tourism Activities: Activities targeting a specific
                  category of tourists, which are subject to the jurisdiction of a
                  government agency or agencies other than the Ministry, such as
                  health tourism, sports tourism, exhibition tourism, festival tourism,
                  and the like.
                  Complementary Tourism Activities: Any activity practiced by a
                  natural or legal person which involves the provision of a service
                  or product to tourists for a fee and which directly impacts their
                  experience, such as restaurants, parks, theme parks, auditoria,
                  traditional and folk crafts, and transportation and car rental
                  services.
                  License: A document issued by the Ministry to practice an activity
                  or provide a service in the field of tourism in accordance with this
                  Law.
                  Licensee: Any natural or legal person holding a license issued by
                  the Ministry in accordance with this Law.



    Article Two   1.   A license or permit must be obtained from the Ministry prior
                       to engaging in any tourism activity, as determined by the
                       Regulations.
                  2.   The Regulations shall specify the provisions relating to licenses,
                       permits, criteria, and requirements necessary for the practice
                       of tourism activities falling within the Ministry’s jurisdiction, as
                       well as the provisions relating to the classification of activities.




3
                                                                           Tourism Law



                    3.   Additional criteria and requirements for the issuance of
                         licenses, permits, and approvals necessary for practicing
                         complementary and specialized tourism activities and
                         monitoring such activities by the relevant agencies in tourist
                         destinations shall be determined pursuant to a decision by the
                         Minister, upon coordination with the competent agencies.



    Article Three A licensee shall:
                    1.   Provide the best services, as per approved standards;
                    2.   Comply with the conditions and requirements for licensing
                         and classification during their validity, as specified by the
                         Regulations;
                    3.   Register the data of all his employees with the Ministry, and
                         update such data in the event of any change thereto within
                         a period not exceeding three months from the date of such
                         change;
                    4.   Submit tourism data, information, and statistics to the Ministry,
                         as specified by the Regulations; and
                    5.   Comply with the Ministry’s decisions and instructions.



    Article Four    A licensee shall provide financial guarantees for tourism activities
                    requiring such guarantees. The Regulations shall specify said
                    activities and the provisions related to the guarantees, including
                    their amounts and conditions as well as the manner of collecting the
                    fines and any amounts due to third parties from such guarantees,
                    in agreement with the Ministry of Finance.




4
                                                                          Tourism Law



    Article Five   1.   The Ministry and government agencies, each within their
                        jurisdiction, shall endeavor to achieve the objectives of this
                        Law and the Strategy, in collaboration and partnership with
                        the private sector, non-profit sector, and local community.
                   2.   Without prejudice to relevant laws and regulations, government
                        and private agencies shall adhere to the criteria, conditions,
                        and rules stipulated in Article 2(3) of this Law, which represent
                        the minimum required criteria and rules, and which shall not
                        restrict the powers of such agencies to apply more stringent
                        criteria or other rules.


    Article Six    1.   Tourist destinations, and all matters related thereto, shall be
                        determined pursuant to a Council of Ministers’ resolution upon
                        a proposal by the Minister, particularly the following:
                   a) Identifying tourist resources to be exploited, and targeted
                      tourism activities.
                   b) Specifying State real property or property allocated to
                      government agencies at tourist destinations.
                   c) Setting the requirements for environment protection and the
                      application of environmental standards, in accordance with
                      the provisions of the Environmental Law.
                   d) Stating all matters related to the responsibilities, competencies,
                      and powers of government agencies, in order to propose the
                      Ministry’s participation therein or the transfer of the same to
                      the Ministry within the limits of a tourist destination.
                   e) Setting urban planning requirements for a tourist destination.
                   f) Setting rules for the disposition of a tourist destination for
                      the purpose of development and investment thereof, in
                      accordance with applicable statutory procedures.
                   g) Setting the criteria, requirements, and mechanisms necessary
                      for the practice of tourism activities in a tourist destination.
                   h) Identifying the economic and social impact on the area where
                      the tourist destination is located.


5
                                                                           Tourism Law

                    The Regulations shall specify the other requirements necessary to
                    identify tourist destinations and matters related thereto.
                    2.   Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (1) of this
                         Article, a tourist destination may not be designated except
                         upon coordination with the Ministry.
                    3.   The Ministry and the State Properties General Authority shall
                         identify State-owned tourist destinations that the Ministry
                         deems appropriate for tourism development, as referred to in
                         paragraph 1(b) of this Article.




    Article Seven 1.     Without prejudice to relevant laws and regulations, it is
                         prohibited to undermine the reputation of tourism in the
                         Kingdom, encroach on or cause damage to tourist destinations
                         and tourist resources, or take any action that would harm their
                         touristic value or importance.
                    2.   The Ministry shall coordinate with the Ministry of Interior and
                         other relevant agencies to develop a mechanism to ensure the
                         protection of tourist destinations and resources, and to prevent
                         encroachment thereon.
                    3.   Government agencies in charge of planning shall, upon
                         planning cities, villages, and State- owned projects, take into
                         account the preservation of tourist destinations and resources,
                         and shall coordinate with the Ministry prior to approving any
                         projects or developing any plans that would temporarily or
                         permanently affect such destinations and resources.



    Article Eight Without prejudice to relevant laws and regulations, the Minister
                    shall, in a decision issued thereby in coordination with the
                    competent authorities, determine the rules for investment in tourist
                    destinations, and any facilitations required therefor.




6
                                                                             Tourism Law




    Article Nine   1.   Taking into account the services provided by existing
                        government centers and electronic platforms and avoiding
                        duplication of roles, the Minister may, pursuant to a decision
                        issued thereby and upon coordination with the relevant
                        agencies, set up a comprehensive service center or electronic
                        platform to provide the services necessary for tourism,
                        tourists, and tourist service providers, or integrate with other
                        government centers and electronic platforms, as specified by
                        the Regulations.
                   2.   The Ministry shall establish a database to provide data,
                        statistics, and information on all tourism-related aspects in
                        the Kingdom in line with international best practices, as well as
                        to provide the necessary information to tourism stakeholders,
                        including investors, associations, service providers, tourists,
                        and others. Such data, statistics, and information shall be
                        updated regularly, in coordination with the relevant agencies,
                        and shall be published on the Ministry’s website, as specified
                        by the Regulations.
                   3.   Government agencies, companies, and other entities engaged
                        in tourism activities, as defined by the Regulations shall,
                        without prejudice to relevant laws and regulations, provide
                        the Ministry with any information or documents the Ministry
                        deems necessary for the tourism sector.




    Article Ten    If the Ministry, in coordination with competent authorities, finds
                   that a tourist facility poses an imminent danger to public health or
                   safety, it shall take the necessary precautionary measures, including
                   the closure of said facility. If it is an accommodation facility, it shall
                   be immediately evacuated, and all guests legally residing therein
                   shall be moved to an alternative accommodation. The Regulations
                   shall specify relevant rules.




7
                                                                             Tourism Law




    Article Eleven The Regulations shall determine the fees for the following:
                     1.   Licenses for tourism activities issued by the Ministry.
                     2.   Services and activities provided by the Ministry under this Law
                          and its Regulations.




    Article Twelve The Ministry shall issue approvals for tourist visas in accordance
                     with rules agreed upon with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry
                     of Foreign Affairs. The Regulations shall specify procedures for the
                     issuance of said approvals.


    Article
    Thirteen         1.   Inspectors appointed by the Minister shall record and
                          investigate violations of this Law and its Regulations, and shall
                          verify that tourism activities satisfy relevant conditions and
                          rules. In carrying out their duties, said inspectors may review
                          records and data, receive complaints, question the staff of
                          the facility under inspection, and obtain any information they
                          require. They shall detect and record violations and refer them
                          to the Committee stipulated in Article 15(1) of this Law.
                     2.   Inspectors may not be prevented from performing the duties
                          stipulated in this Article. Owners and workers of facilities under
                          inspection shall cooperate with the inspectors and provide
                          them with the required assistance.




8
                                                                      Tourism Law



    Article
    Fourteen   The Ministry may, without prejudice to the main duties assigned
               thereto under this Law, outsource certain duties to specialized
               companies or agencies in accordance with rules specified by the
               Regulations.



    Article
    Fifteen    1.   The Minister shall form a committee or more, comprising
                    at least three members, one of whom is a legal specialist to
                    review violations of this Law and its Regulations and impose
                    the penalties stipulated in Article 16 of this Law, excluding
                    instantly issued fines stipulated in Article 16(5).
               2.   The Regulations shall specify the committee’s work procedure,
                    and the remuneration of committee members shall be
                    determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister.



    Article
    Sixteen    1.   Without prejudice to any harsher penalty stipulated in another
                    law nor to the right of an aggrieved party to be compensated
                    for any damage sustained as a result of violating the provisions
                    of this Law, any person who violates any of the provisions of
                    this Law or its Regulations shall be subject to one or more of
                    the following penalties:
                    a) A warning notice.
                    b) Temporary or permanent closure of the tourist facility or
                    part thereof.
                    c) Lowering of classification.
                    d) Suspension of license for a period not exceeding one year.
                    e) Revocation of license.
                    f) A fine not exceeding one million riyals.
               2.   The committee referred to in Article 15(1) of this Law may:



9
                                                             Tourism Law

     a.   Impose a fine on the violator for each day the violation
          continues after notification of the committee’s decision; said
          fine shall be calculated from the date specified by such decision.
     b.   Double the fine imposed on the violator without exceeding its
          maximum limit in case the violation is repeated; a violation
          shall be deemed repeated if committed within one year from
          the date of committing the previous violation.
     c.   Include in the penalty decision the publication of its contents
          at the expense of the violator in a local newspaper issued in
          the area of his residence or, if his area has no local newspaper,
          in the local newspaper nearest to his place of residence, or
          by using any other appropriate medium, depending on the
          type, gravity, and impact of the violation; the decision shall be
          published only after it becomes final either upon the lapse of
          the statutory period or the issuance of a final ruling thereon.
     3.   The penalty decision shall include a provision compelling the
          violator to rectify the violation, pay the damages, and refund
          collected amounts to their owners, if any. Collected amounts
          and gains shall be deposited with the State treasury.
     4.   The penalty shall be proportionate to the violation, taking into
          consideration the nature and gravity of the violation, as well as
          aggravating and mitigating circumstances.
     5.   The Minister shall issue a table comprising a classification of
          violations and their corresponding penalties, as provided for in
          paragraph (1) of this Article, as well as the amount and duration
          of such penalties, taking into account the gradual application
          thereof. Said table shall include violations that entail a fine not
          exceeding ten thousand riyals instantly issued by the competent
          inspector upon detection.
     6.   Decisions issued by the Ministry may be appealed before
          the Administrative Court within 60 days from the date of
          notification of the decision.




10
                                                                    Tourism Law




     Article
     Seventeen   The Minister shall issue the Regulations within 90 days from
                 the date of publication of this Law in the Official Gazette. The
                 Regulations shall become effective from the date this Law enters
                 into force.

     Article
     Eighteen    This Law shall supersede the Tourism Law issued by Royal Decree
                 No. (M/2), dated 9/1/1436H, and shall repeal any provisions
                 conflicting therewith.


     Article
     Eighteen    This Law shall enter into force 90 days following the date of its
                 publication in the Official Gazette.




11
